Brief regarding proposed points system
For the sake of convenience, in a few places I use the future tense “will be” to describe some aspect of the system, but I fully recognize that everything here is just a proposal. I’m not taking anything for granted. Feel free to dislike or disagree with anything I’ve written. I look forward to the discussion(s) this prompts. 
Background
The Advanced Study Room has always struck me as potentially much more than just a context for playing league/tournament games. When things started I originally wanted the ASR to be a community environment for the promotion and advancement of go. Part of the idea came from learning how to play go by using playgo.to/interactive, a site that walks the beginner through all the steps it takes to get from “40k” – their imaginary ultra-beginner rank – to “25k”. If only the rest of the ranks were that formulaic! Well, why not? Why couldn’t a reward system be created to encourage and direct people along every stage of their advancement towards high dan levels? The creation of the League was just the first step towards developing a go learning environment and community. Extending from this, I believe a points system will give the ASR a type of social interactivity that draws from both RPGs (pretty ubiquitous these days, and ‘levelling’ is powerful psychological motivator) and social networking sites that reward community interaction (e.g., foursquare, twitter). 
Synopsis
The points system I’m proposing is designed to encourage involvement in a broader context, and through a broader variety of actions, than the specific and linear league advancement we currently have. I’d like us to create different contexts for points: a context for my purpose here is a place where points are acquired and/or spent. Currently, the only context for point acquisition is within a single class. They are acquired by playing games, and then discarded. For players, there is no real continuity of their efforts from one month to the next, no permanent or ongoing recognition of their achievements. The current league operates according to a one-time (monthly) first-past-the-post model: make the cut for advancement, prizes, or just staying where you are, else suffer penalties, regardless of how much you worked. People should be rewarded for every drop of effort they contribute to the league. From an organizational point of view, we should consider every user interaction with the league a resource contributed to our system. We should consider every game played, every win/loss, every review/comment/forum post, etc., to be valuable and worthy of recognition/reward. Take nothing for granted. We want as much as possible to encourage maximum user involvement while at the same time turning that involvement into value-added benefits for the rest of the community.
Here are some contexts I’m suggesting. It should be noted that the particulars of what contexts we use is largely irrelevant, and totally subject to change. What’s new here is really the idea of contexts/points period.
Contexts
These are locations where points are spent or acquired. They don’t necessarily have to have anything to do with the league.
Store: Points will be redeemable for prizes, items, lessons, etc. The store is one place where points can be cashed in. The value of items in the store will be controllable and basically arbitrary, until we find a rubric that balances cost and reward effectively. Obviously, supply and demand will be factors in determining value, but the currency I’m suggesting will be the points themselves.
Another name for this might be the “Prize Pool”, where our prizes are stored until people have acquired enough points to redeem them. This gives people more control over the prizes they want, too. If we want things to be difficult to acquire, then we can just increase the cost in points of each prize. This also means that people have to stay in the league potentially longer in order to receive prizes. The sneaky thing about this system is it actually makes getting prizes HARDER, while at the same time making the process seem like it gives people more control/better access to their prizes. It’s sort of a capitalist model. People will no longer associate their short-term participation with acquiring prizes; they’ll be in it for the long haul, saving up their points for that coveted pro lesson. But we might do something like make pro lessons cost an outrageous amount, like 1000. Also, as indicated below, points scale depending on the division you’re in. People in Alpha will receive more points than people in Gamma, for their wins.
Tournament: Winning doesn’t get you a prize, per se, but points redeemable for a prize. You can hold on to them, or keep them around for later.
Dojo: The “dojo”, a provisional name to be sure, could be where players go to sign up and offer teaching games. Kind of like the KGS Teaching Ladder, except more structured, and people who give teaching games given through the dojo will be rewarded with points.
External Websites: Points redeemable on other websites for prizes, lessons, etc.
ASR Website: There are many, many ways we could incorporate points into the ASR website. For example, points could be used to unlock features on the site (see below, in the levelling section). In fact, it makes sense that many of the ways in which points could be redeemed would take place on the site. Keep reading to see what I mean.
User Profile: The concept of points will lend itself, not necessarily, but advantageously, to having a more robust social networking interface. People will not just sign up for the league, they’ll also have accounts on the site. They’ll become members of the ASR in a much more meaningful way than simply as warm bodies in the room. Membership will of course be free; no social networking site other than a few highly specialized dating sites charges membership fees, and we simply wouldn’t be able to do it (but even if I’m wrong, I don’t think that should be a priority discussion point for a long time, not until the league has grown substantially and has a solid membership).
The user profile ties in to this notion of social networking in a significant way. With points people could keep track of their score by visiting their profile, or could check out other people’s statistics by visiting their profiles. It could be where achievements are displayed; where prizes, library materials, etc… can be accessed automatically (click the link in the “Your Prizes” box to download your go book pdf), where random enhancements like avatar icons can be selected (in the hypothetical event that you’ve purchased multiple avatars and want to choose from among them), and so on.
I wouldn’t get too hung up on this particular aspect, since I anticipate it’d be one of the harder ones to implement. Nevertheless, it gives membership in the ASR a sort of permanence, even without any bells and whistles. Imagine a scenario where people are acquiring points without participating in the league at all, but entirely by teaching and by participating in other community-oriented contexts!
Level/statistics sheet: People love role playing games. They love the satisfaction of working hard at something and receiving some external signifier of advancement. This is why people develop rank obsession. Go lends itself very well to thinking incrementally about advancement. The problem is, the distance between individual ranks can sometimes be vast. Why not supplement the process of advancement by creating our own smaller increments and relating advancement to point acquisition. To clarify, these are NOT points as used in the Chess and Star Craft models. I’m not suggesting we replace the Go ranking system.
What I am suggesting is creating a system that recognizes and rewards people for their work in the league, for their efforts to learn and teach, and for their small milestones in the journey to become strong. Now how we do this is another question. A couple ideas:
This idea is maybe a bit whacky, and I’m just throwing it out there in the spirit of unrestrained brainstorming. What if we allowed people to spend points on various aspects of their ASR “avatars”, upgrading statistics or equipment. Yeah, why not turn the process of playing go into a parallel game of character advancement? People study games, people teach, people compete in the tournaments and league, and in turn they can develop their avatar, which becomes a symbol of their accomplishment and a social status symbol as well. And who knows, maybe we create some kind of fun tournament game where people can pit their avatars against each other to see who’d win.
Another idea: points are treated as “experience”, and we create a detailed chart containing various areas of improvement. So people’s avatars will display “status bars” for Tsumego strength, Fighting ability, Life and Death, Fuseki, Joseki, Yose, and so on. Either people work on something and spend points to upgrade some statistic (as a sort of personal recognition of their work, though admittedly not one that is based on any measure of actual skill), or they perform certain challenging tasks successfully (e.g., solve tough tsumego while being observed by an admin) in exchange for which their meters are incremented.
I recognize that people’s go playing ability is non-linear, so this area in particular is one that we’d have to toy with quite a bit to come up with a model that was fair, honest, and genuinely added fun to the process. Levelling up needn’t even be bound to points, per se. If we even so much as offered the status bars for different strength areas it would give people another system of measurement for their advancement, and would enable them to set milestones and goals too. Could be very rewarding. Along this line, perhaps points could be used to upgrade people’s accounts, and acquire new features, LIKE the status bars. Just a thought.
Video library: If we can get people to contribute video tutorials, we can lend these out for an inexpensive monthly membership fee (in points).
Book library: If we can get our hands on open source go study materials, we could create a lending library system that maybe depends on spending a very low number of points for monthly membership. 
Scoreboard: User standings. Points could contribute to user standings on the website. We could have ongoing ladders that are much more permanent (not monthly at all, but just ongoing, and updating very gradually, in a way similar to Starcraft 2). These ladders would run alongside the League, and not affect anything really except for people’s standing in the community, and serve as a tally of their accomplishments. Logos/icons/avatars could be awarded to people with sufficient points to “buy” them. Potentially, we’ll have two different scoreboards that will behave differently. One will reflect total current points, while another will reflect total points overall, including points spent.
Achievements: For whatever reason, people love achievements. We could have achievements like: ten wins in a row; acquired more than 200 points in one month; won 5 games in a row against a single opponent, etc… I have graphic design skills and would enjoy creating icons for these
The League: And of course, points will still be awarded on a monthly basis, and be used along those lines to determine advancement and demotion in the league. They just wouldn’t ONLY be used for that, and points would carry over into other tallies. You’d start every month with 0 points in the CLASS, but your overall tally would increase. This would encourage people to play more games, since even lost games, and even lost months, would be worth something. If we started issuing points for game reviews after games, then people would do them more often too.
Point rewards scale depending on the division you’re in. This is debatable, but we might want to increase the point rewards for ALL actions depending on your class level. For example, if you’re in Alpha and conduct a game review it’s worth more points than if you’re in Epsilon. 
Even if we don’t do that, it still won’t change the internal class dynamics if we increase the point rewards for PLAYING matches in higher classes, since month-to-month the point distribution will be relative to each class. So you’ll be earning more, but so will everyone else in your class in direct proportion to you. This will also give people another reason to strive for higher classes, since the reward mechanism isn’t connected DIRECTLY, but rather indirectly, to class advancement.

Suggested Economy Table
Here’s a couple tables I’ve drafted up indicating the suggested value of individual actions in points, and the proposed cost of other things I’ve outlined above. 








Conservative Use Case
Okay, I acknowledge some of the foregoing would probably be very difficult to implement and arguably of any value at all. Despite that, I find the idea really exciting. I want to present a very limited, conservative use case for this system that we could realistically implement in the not-too-distant-future. This use case assumes we’ll adopt only the most basic of the suggestions outlined above, namely that points carry over between months and are redeemable for prizes, and earned through other means than just playing games. This system does not grant more points for games played in higher divisions, but in my mind I think that would be an excellent, and not particularly controversial, second step after adopting the system. 
Let me outline the scenario. 
Format: Event. [Monthly Total/Overall Total]
1. Player X, 1d, begins in Epsilon XI. [0 points/0 points]
2. Plays 10 matches. Wins 5, loses 5. No repeats. [15 points/15 points]
3. Advances to Delta II. [0 points/15 points]
4. Plays 4 matches. 1 win, 3 losses. [5 points/20 points]
5. Solves 10 tsumego. [7.5 points/22.5 points]
6. Offers 2 teaching games, 1h long each. [13.5 points/28.5 points]
7. Conducts one demonstration for the room, 1h long. [16.5 points/31.5 points]
8. Advances to Gamma IV. [0 points/31.5 points]
9. Goes inactive. 0 games. [0 points/31.5 points]
10. Conducts 10 reviews, 1h each, before the next month starts. [20 points/51.5 points]
11. Purchases an audio go lesson. [-50 points/1.5 points]
Conclusion
Right now the league suffers from short-term, prize-oriented focus. People participate to the extent that they can acquire prizes, and the system does not reward them for losses. Lost games are simply lost games if you don’t make the cut for the next month. The system not only demands a long-term commitment for the truly good prizes (the coveted pro lessons), but offers no sustaining infrastructure to nurture and encourage that commitment beyond the dangled cherry in the distance. Structurally, it encourages drop-out and short-term involvement while demanding long-term investment. It’s extremely hard to sustain motivation for prizes alone, and let’s not kid ourselves: advancing in the league is a lot of work. It requires a major investment of time and energy; finding opponents can also be quite challenging. Inactivity is systemic. And ultimately, how much direct learning does this system produce? Don’t get me wrong, I love the league, but I think it needs to be supplemented with other activities and reward mechanisms. The points system I’m outlining here offers tangible rewards that don’t actually require us to secure more prizes and donations. We can maintain and maybe even reduce our dependence on acquiring prizes while simultaneously increasing user involvement and interest. I believe that once word gets out about this system, assuming we implement it, it will serve to increase interest in the league, both among its current participants and in the broader KGS community itself.
Also, and perhaps most importantly, we should reward every interaction people have with the league. Solving tsumego, giving reviews, teaching, and playing games are all recognized and gifted with points in this system. Even lost games are rewarded in a permanent sense. Players will no longer feel disheartened by playing 10 games, losing them all, and then failing to advance. Those 10 losses count for something more; and I’m not just being rhetorical when I say this. Those games DO count. They count in terms of learning, participation, and community involvement. The points system is a way of representing everything we love about the ASR; it offers a way of symbolizing and rewarding the entire process of go advancement.
And best of all, this system is infinitely scalable. It gives us the flexibility to add and remove components to the ASR without having to dramatically restructure any existing elements. It permits us to shift some of the emphasis away from the league, while actually increasing involvement in it: people will participate more to earn points, without being as obsessed with the prize gifting at the end of the month (which we’d no longer have to do). It paradoxically reduces administrative work, assuming we can automate point distribution (which we surely can do). It also allows us to expand and develop new areas for the room without a huge additional investment of work. Its beauty is that it’s simply a symbolic, numeric structure we’re superimposing on the existing system. It won’t discard any of the hard work we’ve already done, but it will enhance it.